We all die alone
===============

Posted: 2006-11-13 18:35:31
-------------------------

I have spent most of the past week or two very sick. It's gotten particularly bad this past weekend. Each of the past few days, I've woken up and promptly started into the worst coughing fit I've ever had in my entire life. It's like a minute straight of coughing, followed by constriction of my trachea, leaving me wheezing and unable to breathe. This goes on for a minute or two, and has brought me very close to passing out. This morning, it was so bad, and I was so scared, that I had the phone in my hands dialing 911, only to realize that if I actually called, I would be unable to speak! I was still just wheezing and unable even to talk. Finally, it went away, and I returned to "normal", but I was left extremely shaken by the whole incident. (For what it's worth, I had a chest X-ray done today, and am being checked out for pneumonia.) See, I don't have many friends around here, and my family is hundreds of miles away. Were something to happen to me, it would probably result in me being completely alone for the most part. My parents are a good 10 hours away, and my sister about 5. My friends are scattered all over the place, and besides, I think they're all too busy to worry about me.
I think that 's the scariest part; thinking that I'm worthless in the eyes of my friends. I have a couple very good friends who I've met via WoW who have kind of drifted off on their own, away from me. I've wanted desperately to be friends with them, but I'm now realizing that I'm not the kind of person they enjoy being around. They are very creative women who love role playing (in the D&D sense) and writing and telling stories. They've really gotten into that with each other, and I haven't been able to keep up, mostly because I spend most of my time in the game raiding and doing other things. Plus, my sickness and inability to stay up as late as them has led me to not be able to spend much time with them at all. All in all, because they're women who are otherwise attached, I know in the back of my mind that an old loser like me has no right to hang out with such interesting people.

Yet, when I say that, I feel like I'm regressing to my own teenage years. I felt back then that I was never cool enough to hang out with anyone, that I was always a 5th wheel. I guess one part of it is that I always have to initiate conversation with others. Noone steps up to me and says, "Hey Peter, how are you?" If I don't do it, I will be forgotten. If I die, noone will care, save my parents and immediate family. Who would miss me? My college friends? Briefly, but they'd just move on - they've all got other lives that don't involve me in the slightest. My WoW friends? Unlikely - I'm just a "nice guy" who has done absolutely nothing for anyone.

Now I'm sick and miserable. It's prevented me from working, it's affecting my ability to speak, and now I just feel like the most worthless person on the face of the earth. Wow. I've really screwed up this time, huh?
