Haunting memories
===============

Posted: 2006-09-26 09:29:05
-------------------------

I normally don't read <a target="_blank" title="Salon" href="http://www.salon.com">Salon's</a> online advice column "Since You Asked", though I enjoy much of the rest of the site. However, today's entry caught my eye: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.salon.com/mwt/col/tenn/2006/09/26/embarrassment/">"How can I get over embarrassing memories?"</a> The letter writer discusses how he is haunted by embarrassing momemts, little moments of weakness or stupidity that make us cringe. They float in our heads, resurfacing at random times to send a shiver down our spines. Cary Tennis, the advice-giver, says the best way to fight it is to tell these stories. Reveal them to others. As an example, he told the story of how he... well, read the column to find out. :P

Of course, this has always bothered me as well. I have several memories that still bother me, most of which are from my childhood. There was one event that flashed into my mind this morning on the train to work before I had read the column, so it made the column seem that much more important to me. So here goes. When I was working as a youth worker in Park Ridge (my short-lived 3-month stint out there after I had completed my year in LVC), there was a young woman in the church who was really cool. She was happily married, and I, in fact, was seeing an LVCer myself at the time. That didn't stop me from flirting shamelessly with this woman, though. I'd goof around with her, play with her hair, and such. I didn't get any negative reaction from her, so I assumed that she didn't mind and perhaps was having fun with it too. Later, I hear from my boss (the pastor) that she was, indeed, rather bothered by all this. Not coincidentally (in my mind at least), I was asked to resign a couple weeks later. The ostensible reason was that the kids did not really like me (which is a lame reason to get rid of a new youth worker, but never mind), but I couldn't help but think that the flirting contributed somehow to their desire to get rid of me. A couple of weeks later, the LVCer broke up with me, thus, that whole time, the last few months of 1999, are all quite painful for me to think of. But that one moment of playing with that girl's hair sticks in my mind as a moment of stupidity.

So there you go. I typ all this out since someday someone may read it, but I doubt it. In any case, there it is for you.
